README.md, before:

# rest.js

> GitHub REST API client for Node.js

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/octokit/rest.js.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/octokit/rest.js)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/octokit/rest.js/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/octokit/rest.js)
[![Greenkeeper](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/octokit/rest.js.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/github.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/github)

## Usage

<!-- HEADS UP: when changing the options for the constructor, make sure to also
     update the type definition templates in scripts/templates/* -->
```js
const GitHubApi = require('@octokit/rest')
const github = new GitHubApi()

// Compare: https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/#list-organization-repositories
const {data} = github.repos.getForOrg({
  org: 'octokit',
  type: 'public'
})
```

All available constructor options with default values

```js
const github = new GitHubApi({
  timeout: 0, // 0 means no request timeout
  requestMedia: 'application/vnd.github.v3+json',
  headers: {
    'user-agent': 'octokit/rest.js v1.2.3' // v1.2.3 will be current version
  },

  // change for custom GitHub Enterprise URL
  host: 'api.github.com',
  pathPrefix: '',
  protocol: 'https',
  port: 433,

  // advanced request options
  // see https://nodejs.org/api/http.html
  proxy: undefined,
  ca: undefined,
  rejectUnauthorized: undefined,
  family: undefined
})
```

`@octokit/rest` API docs: https://octokit.github.io/rest.js/
GitHub v3 REST API docs: https://developer.github.com/v3/

## Authentication

Most GitHub API calls don't require authentication. Rules of thumb

1. If you can see the information by visiting the site without being logged in, you don't have to be authenticated to retrieve the same information through the API.
2. If you want to change data, you have to be authenticated.

```javascript
// basic
github.authenticate({
  type: 'basic',
  username: 'yourusername',
  password: 'password'
})

// oauth
github.authenticate({
  type: 'oauth',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})

// oauth key/secret (to get a token)
github.authenticate({
  type: 'oauth',
  key: 'client_id',
  secret: 'client_secert'
})

// token (https://github.com/settings/tokens)
github.authenticate({
  type: 'token',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})

// GitHub app
github.authenticate({
  type: 'integration',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})
```

Note: `authenticate` is synchronous because it only sets the credentials
for the following requests.

## Pagination

There are a few pagination-related methods:

- `hasNextPage(response)`
- `hasPreviousPage(response)`
- `hasFirstPage(response)`
- `hasLastPage(response)`
- `getNextPage(response)`
- `getPreviousPage(response)`
- `getFirstPage(response)`
- `getLastPage(response)`

Usage

```js
let response = github.repos.getAll({
  per_page: 100
})
const {data} = response

while (github.hasNextPage(response)) {
  response = github.getNextPage(response)
  data = data.concat(response.data)
}
```

## DEBUG

Set `DEBUG=octokit:rest*` for additional debug logs.

## Tests

Run all tests

```bash
$ npm test
```

Or run a specific test

```bash
$ ./node_modules/.bin/mocha test/test/integration/get-repository-test.js
```

The examples are run as part of the tests. You can set an `EXAMPLES_GITHUB_TOKEN` environment
variable (or set it in a `.env` file) to avoid running against GitHub's rate limit.

## Credits

`@octokit/rest` was originally created as `node-github` in 2012 by Mike de Boer from Cloud9 IDE, Inc.
It was adopted and renamed by GitHub in 2017

## LICENSE

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

WIP reference HOW_IT_WORKS.md from README & CONTRIBUTING

README.md, after:

# rest.js

> GitHub REST API client for Node.js

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/octokit/rest.js.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/octokit/rest.js)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/octokit/rest.js/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/octokit/rest.js)
[![Greenkeeper](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/octokit/rest.js.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/github.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/github)

## Usage

<!-- HEADS UP: when changing the options for the constructor, make sure to also
     update the type definition templates in scripts/templates/* -->
```js
const GitHubApi = require('@octokit/rest')
const github = new GitHubApi()

// Compare: https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/#list-organization-repositories
const {data} = github.repos.getForOrg({
  org: 'octokit',
  type: 'public'
})
```

All available constructor options with default values

```js
const github = new GitHubApi({
  timeout: 0, // 0 means no request timeout
  requestMedia: 'application/vnd.github.v3+json',
  headers: {
    'user-agent': 'octokit/rest.js v1.2.3' // v1.2.3 will be current version
  },

  // change for custom GitHub Enterprise URL
  host: 'api.github.com',
  pathPrefix: '',
  protocol: 'https',
  port: 433,

  // advanced request options
  // see https://nodejs.org/api/http.html
  proxy: undefined,
  ca: undefined,
  rejectUnauthorized: undefined,
  family: undefined
})
```

`@octokit/rest` API docs: https://octokit.github.io/rest.js/
GitHub v3 REST API docs: https://developer.github.com/v3/

## Authentication

Most GitHub API calls don't require authentication. Rules of thumb

1. If you can see the information by visiting the site without being logged in, you don't have to be authenticated to retrieve the same information through the API.
2. If you want to change data, you have to be authenticated.

```javascript
// basic
github.authenticate({
  type: 'basic',
  username: 'yourusername',
  password: 'password'
})

// oauth
github.authenticate({
  type: 'oauth',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})

// oauth key/secret (to get a token)
github.authenticate({
  type: 'oauth',
  key: 'client_id',
  secret: 'client_secert'
})

// token (https://github.com/settings/tokens)
github.authenticate({
  type: 'token',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})

// GitHub app
github.authenticate({
  type: 'integration',
  token: 'secrettoken123'
})
```

Note: `authenticate` is synchronous because it only sets the credentials
for the following requests.

## Pagination

There are a few pagination-related methods:

- `hasNextPage(response)`
- `hasPreviousPage(response)`
- `hasFirstPage(response)`
- `hasLastPage(response)`
- `getNextPage(response)`
- `getPreviousPage(response)`
- `getFirstPage(response)`
- `getLastPage(response)`

Usage

```js
let response = github.repos.getAll({
  per_page: 100
})
const {data} = response

while (github.hasNextPage(response)) {
  response = github.getNextPage(response)
  data = data.concat(response.data)
}
```

## DEBUG

Set `DEBUG=octokit:rest*` for additional debug logs.

## Tests

Run all tests

```bash
$ npm test
```

Or run a specific test

```bash
$ ./node_modules/.bin/mocha test/test/integration/get-repository-test.js
```

The examples are run as part of the tests. You can set an `EXAMPLES_GITHUB_TOKEN` environment
variable (or set it in a `.env` file) to avoid running against GitHub's rate limit.

## Contributing

We would love you to contribute to `@octokit/rest`, pull requests are very welcomed!
Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Credits

`@octokit/rest` was originally created as `node-github` in 2012 by Mike de Boer from Cloud9 IDE, Inc.
It was adopted and renamed by GitHub in 2017

## LICENSE

[MIT](LICENSE)
